# Oozaru: Sphere for the Web

**Oozaru** is a lightweight implementation of the
[Sphere](https://github.com/spheredev/neosphere) game engine API for the Web,
written in TypeScript and based on standard HTML and JavaScript technologies;
the engine runs on most modern browsers and no third-party browser plugin is
required.

Oozaru is currently in beta, but will eventually be fully integrated
into the official Sphere development toolchain.


## Download

**Oozaru 0.4.0**, released on Saturday, December 18, 2021, is available for
download from the Releases page here:

* https://github.com/spheredev/oozaru/releases/tag/v0.4.0

Note that because Oozaru is still in beta and doesn't yet the full Sphere v2
API, it won't run all Sphere v2 games yet and there may be glitches.  Overall
support should be pretty high, though; if you find any bugs or missing
features, please report them!


## About the Project

### The Name üêí

"Oozaru" is the Japanese name for the Saiyans' Great Ape transformation from
Dragon Ball Z, and follows in a long tradition of Sphere v2-related projects
being named for Dragon Ball concepts, joining the likes of **Cell**, the Sphere
compiler; and **SSj**, the Sphere debugger.

### Goal ‚úî

The goal of the Oozaru project is to develop a lightweight browser-based game
engine which is built on established Web and JavaScript technologies.  It is
intended that the engine be fully functional in a modern browser without the
user having to install external plugins or extensions, and it should also be
possible to write JavaScript code which will execute in both Oozaru and
[neoSphere](https://github.com/fatcerberus/sphere) without modification.

### License üìú

Like the rest of the Sphere platform, Oozaru is licensed under the terms of a
BSD-style license. The engine can be used for any purpose, even commercially,
with no other requirements except to maintain the accompanying copyright notice
and license text.
